Previously on Good Sam...
I'm done
fighting you for the chief job.
I'm out. Hurting you was
a wake-up call for me,
Malcolm.
For what it's worth, I think
you would have beat him.
What are you saying?
I love you.
Why does he sound like
he's transitioning
to active labor?
My new husband has
some techniques
to help me deal with
my old husband.
Your father dropped
an instrument
in the middle of surgery.
That scalpel's not
the only thing he's dropped.
I know about the headaches
and the ringing in your ears.
Thanks for telling me
about this.
about his symptoms.
(machine humming)
WOMAN:
There, in the bilateral
hemispheres.
WOMAN 2:
He's got a couple months, ma.
This is a death sentence.
You okay?
Yeah. It was... it was a dream.
Yeah, a bad one.
You're sweating.
You want to try
and lay back down?
You know, I, uh,
think I'm gonna go in.
What, now?
Radiology said
they'd have the results
by today.
Babe.
Mm.
No one's going to see
your results
until at least 9:00.
Well, I'll be there
when they do.
Look, it's still dark out.
Come on, get
back into bed.
(groans)
Come on.
Or we can go in.
I got your text.
You've been here all night?
Pretty much.
Dr. Osmond just got in.
They're going over
the results now.
Okay.
well, he, uh,
wants to hear himself first.
Why not just
go to Radiology?
He didn't want to
raise suspicions.
TINA:
Dr. Griffith.
I think it's a little late
for that now.
Ms. Kingsley.
What can I do for you?
I was hoping we could speak.
Perhaps in your office?
Uh, my office is in use.
My father's borrowing it
for a meeting.
Borrowing it?
Yes.
Well, technically,
I am borrowing it from him,
since it was his office
in the first place
and will be again
when he's reinstated.
If he's reinstated.
Ah. What's this?
Applicants for the chief
position.
It's a very competitive list.
I thought you'd like
to take a look in case
a particular candidate
stood out to you.
I'll be putting my full support
behind my father.
So you're not even gonna
take a look at it?
No.
He is the right chief
for this department.
Assuming he passes
all remaining assessments.
Of course.
Have a good day, doctors.
Thank you. You too.
Mm.
(door opens)
Oh.
Well, what'd he say?
He, uh... says it's nothing.
No tumor, no inflammation,
no discernable abnormality
of any kind.
Well, that's good news.
Depends how you look at it.
Dad, this is a relief.
It would be if it made
my symptoms magically disappear.
(sighs)
I still get ringing in my ears
and blinded by the light.
Got headaches. Whatever it is,
it's not nothing.
Okay, but it's also
not a brain tumor.
Black mold, gas leaks,
venomous snakes.
Oh...
Many, many types of cancer.
What is he doing?
He is listing things
that are not brain tumors
but will still kill you.
We're gonna figure out
what this is.
And how to treat it.
Exactly.
We have to exhaust
all options,
like you always say.
You do always say that.
To the residents.
We're not running
a differential here.
Maybe we should be.
♪ ♪
All right, who is ready for
a little continuing
medical education?
CME for breakfast. Goody.
You know it.
Today's hypothetical patient
is male,
late 50s.
He suffers from
acute headaches,
photophobia,
metallic taste
and tinnitus.
Onset of symptoms
was sudden
and simultaneous. Go.
Is the tinnitus unilateral
or bilateral?
It is unilateral
to the right ear.
Does he have any other
vascular issues?
Not that we know of.
Why do you ask?
Tinnitus is the perception
of sound where there isn't any
or an internal sound
caused by abnormal blood flow.
The comorbid headaches suggest
it's a structural issue.
ISAN:
Like a lesion on the brain stem
or cerebellum, maybe.
The brain scans were clear.
Well, what about
his HPA profile?
Adrenal fatigue
can cause anything
from insomnia to hair loss.
JOEY: It would explain
the light sensitivity.
Doesn't explain
the metallic taste.
Maybe the link is the central
nervous system.
MS or Bell's palsy have been
known to affect sense of taste.
Or it's just a virus
or a side effect
to a medication.
JOEY: Or halitosis.
So the patient's old
and has bad breath.
That's the differential?
He also gets nightmares.
You know, I chalked up
last night's to stress,
waiting for his MRI results.
But it's not an isolated event.
Nightmares, insomnia.
Interrupted REM cycles.
What if it's another symptom?
I'd have to know more about
his typical sleep patterns
before I could
evaluate an anomaly.
Easy. I'll start tracking it.
I'm with him every night.
Sorry. I know it's...
No, it's...
I'm glad you told me.
If you being with
him can help us
figure out what's
going on here,
then it is a good thing.
At least it's better
than a brain tumor.
LEX: Ooh, Donna.
Oh, Sally Rittenberg.
The heart transplant
from August.
Oh, I love a good
thank-you basket.
I love a bougie
designer candle.
DONNA: Put it down, Dr. Costa.
You know how it works.
You want it, you have to win it.
LEX: Mm-hmm.
How many tongue depressors
in the jar?
Are you playing,
Dr. Griffith?
There's a, uh, gift certificate
for a couples massage.
Ah, well, thank you, Donna,
but I think that should
go to a member
of an actual couple.
Strongly agree.
Mm-hmm.
Oh, so, uh,
you and Malcolm
didn't work it out?
No.
Sorry.
No, you're not.
Okay,
fine, I'm not, but it's...
(clears throat)
It's not about me. I'm gonna
keep my feelings to myself.
I appreciate the honesty.
Really?
But it doesn't mean I'm,
you know, ready to...
Oh, no, I didn't assume...
Yeah, 'cause, you know,
what we have works,
and we don't want to...
No, we don't.
Nope, we wouldn't.
Same page.
I'm glad we talked about this.
Me too.
Rounds.
Yeah.
Thank you. Hello.
Everyone, this is Amy Taylor.
She suffers lightheadedness,
shortness of breath
and nausea.
Yeah, my doctor says
I need a bypass.
Well, given your angiogram,
I'm inclined to agree.
These are all common symptoms
of coronary artery disease.
Is there a family history of
heart disease that you know of?
No, but if you shake my family
tree, bottles fall out.
Me included.
She is three years sober.
Three years sober,
that's impressive.
Thank you.
Yeah, well, I put my sister
through so much hell
before I quit drinking
Gretchen still carries
a breathalyzer in her purse.
Stop it.
That's just a reminder
of how happy I am
that you're sober.
Thanks, sis.
(chuckles)
I feel sick.
Oh, well, surgery should
alleviate your symptoms...
No, I mean right now, I...
I feel sick
A headache...
Oh! Oh, honey.
SAM:
Let's get her on a drip
of pantoprazole
and get her crossed and typed
for two units of blood.
Oh, here we go again.
This has happened before?
I'll call Markov in G.I.
Why? I thought you said
nausea was a common symptom.
Narrowed arteries
don't cause blood
to enter the G.I. tract.
SAM:
Yeah, whatever this is,
heart surgery's
not gonna fix it.
(knocking)
You wanted to see me?
Yeah. Close the door.
I want to apologize for the way
I handled the clinic proposal.
I never should have
pressured you
to backchannel
with your father, and I'm, uh,
I'm sorry it blew up on you
the way that it did.
Well, truth is
I probably would have
went to him anyway.
If this clinic could
be something great
for the community,
I'd hate to give up on it.
But we both know your father
will never support it, so...
What if my mom did?
Your mother?
She was a force to be
reckoned with back in the day.
You think she still is?
Do I think she can overrule him
on the clinic?
Yeah.
This would infuriate
your father.
I... To go around him to Tina,
of all people?
Look, I wouldn't
have to do it
if he'd heard me out
in the first place.
This is the nuclear option.
All right, well...
let's hope it works.
(door closes)
Okay, Vinit Jain,
four-centimeter
low-grade glioma in the left
lateral posterior frontal lobe.
Scheduled for an awake
craniotomy. And why is that?
Because it gives us
the opportunity
to map the brain
and avoid areas
that are critical for
normal speech function.
And what's
the difference
between this craniotomy
and a craniectomy?
Uh...
In this procedure,
once the scalp
is opened and clipped,
the brain flap
(indistinct conversation)
that's removed
from the patient's skull
is replaced at the end
of the surgery.
Correct again.
Dr. Costa, you just
earned yourself
a spot in my OR.
See you soon, Mr. Jain.
It sounds scary, but we
do these all the time.
You're in good hands.
Uh...
You studied just
as hard as I did.
Why didn't you answer
any of Dr. Lee's questions?
I wanted to.
I tried to.
But then there's
this voice in my head
telling me I'm a fraud.
A fraud?
Like, if that family
knew the truth about
the patient I lost,
they wouldn't want me
for a doctor.
Ah, yes.
I'm supposed to say
something encouraging
right now, aren't I?
Okay.
Friend moment.
You got this. You can do it.
Believe in yourself.
Sorry,
are you talking to me?
What?
I can't tell who
this pep talk is for.
Oh, no, you don't
need a pep talk.
You need to put what happened
behind you, 'cause there's
no room for self-doubt
in surgery. (gasps)
That was good.
Oh, I've got
Amy Taylor's results.
We should know
what's going on
in her stomach soon.
Let's hope it's a peptic ulcer
and not a perforation.
Hey, I, uh...
I've been thinking about
what you told me.
The nightmares.
And I did a search of
national health surveys.
I-I looked at cross-sections
to see if there was
a relationship between
sleep disorders
and symptoms like my dad's.
And all the evidence suggests
that his condition
is psychological.
Well, depression and anxiety
account for more symptoms
than they get credit for,
that's for sure.
Exactly.
And considering what
he's been through,
it makes sense.
You think it's connected
to his shooting?
Or the patient we lost.
The gunshot victim.
Maybe that triggered something
for my dad.
That sounds like PTSD.
PTSD?
For survivors of war
and natural disaster.
You were shot.
I think that qualifies.
Yeah.
No. It does not explain
my symptoms.
Then let us rule it out
with an expert opinion.
If we're wrong, a mental
health professional
will eliminate it.
And if we're right,
you'll have answers.
Treatment options.
Dad, one appointment.
If Tina Kingsley found out
I'd volunteered
for a psych eval...
She will not find out.
You underestimate her.
It just has to be
someone we trust.
Like who?
(sighs)
Welcome. Come on in.
PYNE:
I applaud you for coming in.
It takes a lot
to ask for help.
Well, we want to exhaust
all the options.
Well, this is exhausting
so far.
What my father means to say
is thank you
for making time for us,
given your busy schedule.
Mm-hmm. And the obvious
conflict of interest.
Us being family and all.
We are not.
Well, we both married
the same woman.
Not at the same time.
(Sam sighs)
And everything you say in here
is confidential.
So, how can I help you today?
You can tell my daughter
that I do not have PTSD
as a result of being shot.
I see.
Well, you list an array
of symptoms here.
There's no chance they're
related to the shooting?
No. Physically,
I'm completely recovered.
How about emotionally?
How do you feel
about the shooting?
I feel that
it would have been better
if he had missed.
I'm sorry, I don't know why
I expected this to work.
If you're not even gonna try...
No chance that the shooting
could lead to this
constellation of symptoms.
You don't know that.
Even Pyne agrees it's a stretch.
Right?
He can't agree until you talk
to him about your feelings.
PYNE:
What about your feelings?
What?
How did you feel
the day he was shot?
Helpless.
Terrified.
He knows the feeling.
He's been there.
What do you mean?
My accident.
When I was a kid,
he was driving, I got hurt.
I had to have surgery,
and he couldn't be in it.
That's quite the
role reversal.
So you both know
how it feels to be
the victim
and the helpless bystander.
The accident was a completely
different situation.
How so?
(siren wailing)
(indistinct chatter)
VIVIAN (echoing):
Sam!
(indistinct radio transmission)
(indistinct chatter)
So you weren't locked out
of my surgery.
You never made it
through the door?
Are you saying
you were unable
to come in the door?
I'm saying that...
there was nothing
I could do.
It was every parent's
worst nightmare.
Do you still feel guilt
over what happened?
Of course I do.
Dad, it was an accident.
I have forgiven him
for this.
Have you forgiven yourself,
Griff?
(stammers, chuckles)
Why are we talking about this?
You were supposed
to be confirming that
the shooting didn't cause PTSD.
I don't think the shooting is
the cause of your symptoms.
Thank you.
But the accident
could be.
There's something
unresolved here,
and I'd like to keep
talking about it.
Well, why don't you and Sam, uh,
schedule some time together?
I'm talking about you.
If your symptoms are
interfering with your work,
I'll have to submit
a formal recommendation
for a mental health assessment
before you return to surgery.
Yeah.
Wow.
Thank you for joining me.
Thanks for inviting me.
There's no one I'd rather
do lunch with
than my own son.
You know, I was hoping we could
do a little business as well.
I'm listening.
All right.
Lakeshore could be doing
a lot more
for underserved communities
in this area.
Now, this clinic is the answer.
It just... it requires
some investment.
Which is why your father
said no.
And you never would have
brought this to me
if you'd gotten a yes
out of him.
Uh, yes.
But we haven't been
seeing eye to eye
ever since I started
dating Sam.
I always wondered if
there was more to that story.
Uh, well, that story is over.
But this clinic is a good idea,
and it can be good
for Lakeshore.
I agree. I'll talk
to the board about it.
Really?
Yes. I said I wanted to
help, and I meant it.
As a matter of fact,
I was thinking
we might help each other out.
What do you mean?
Rob Griffith is
hiding something.
And before your father coronates
his golf buddy
to run this hospital's most
prestigious department,
I'd like to know what it is.
I don't think I should
get between you and Dad.
If Dr. Griffith is
unfit for the job,
the scandal that could result
will end up
on your résumé, too.
That story you told me
about his daughter and you,
how over is it?
I knew it was a waste of time
going to Pyne,
and now he's threatening
to expose me.
He just wants you
to come back.
And if Pyne thinks
he can help you,
why not try?
(pager beeping)
(groans)
Amy's X-ray showed free air
under her diaphragm.
It's a perforation.
Markov's in there doing
a laparotomy now.
Given her cardiomyopathy,
I got to be in there
to monitor her heart.
You don't want to stay and talk
about our feelings some more?
Bye, Dad.
Three years sober,
but what's making her
throw up blood?
Well, that's what we're here
to find out, Dr. Tucker.
Let's proceed with
the laparotomy.
How's it going with
the other patient?
Pyne thinks it could be PTSD,
but not from the shooting.
The accident.
It was traumatic,
but it was also
20 years ago.
Yeah, but when I was
in the Air Force,
they used to talk about
delayed onset PTSD.
You could be a retired colonel,
then something triggers you,
sends you right back
to your first tour.
But what could be
triggering him?
If it's not losing
the gunshot patient,
I-I just don't understand
what's making these symptoms
crop up now.
He's the only one
who could answer that.
Well, he's gonna have to
keep going to therapy.
Pre-pyloric gastric ulcer.
CALEB:
It's fully perforated.
Well, that explains the bleeding
in the abdominal cavity.
Let's get her stitched up.
Hey, what about this here,
near the fundus?
Gastric varices.
Those aren't related
to the perforation
or the heart condition.
These mean Amy's liver
is failing.
LEX:
Didn't she say she's sober?
Yeah.
Could be a relapse.
I mean, that damage
is pretty bad.
Once she's out of surgery,
let's get to the bottom of this.
Hey.
Hi.
How are things
with your dad,
now that you're out
of the chief race?
Oh, they're okay.
You know,
he's still my dad.
Yeah.
(chuckles)
He's, uh, he's doing well?
You think he's ready to
step back in?
Why do you ask?
What do you mean?
I mean, this is the first time
you've asked a question
about my dad
since he was in a coma.
Does giving things a shot with
your mom mean snooping for her?
I just want to know
if you think
your dad is up for the job.
My father is undergoing
proctorship.
It would be premature of me
to tell you what I think.
And frankly, it is unethical
of you to even ask.
Okay.
Sorry I brought it up.
Yeah, me, too.
Tell your mom thanks
for the concern.
(door closes)
Thought you'd be counting
tongue depressors.
I got my guess in early.
Overthinking is
a classic mistake.
Over-practice,
on the other hand...
I'm trying to get
the whole pride flag
before the real surgery.
Dr. Shah, a word?
You've been a little slow
to answer questions on rounds.
I know. I'm sorry.
I'll step it up.
I hope you do, because
the surgery's yours.
Dr. Costa, you're out.
What?
Patient requested you.
What? Like, by name?
He asked for the Indian doctor,
I surmised the rest.
And, uh, those brain models
cost a thousand dollars each,
Dr. Costa.
(chuckles):
Oh.
So Amy Taylor's labs
are back.
All the cultures are negative.
Are there any medications
she could be reacting to?
Not according to this.
(groans)
I want to be there.
If this is a relapse,
it could be helpful
to have someone in the room
who can relate to
her experience.
Plus, it gets me out
of my head.
I appreciate that,
but I don't want to
make things more difficult
for you.
You have your sobriety
to think about...
I am thinking about it.
Showing up for other people
helps me stay sober.
Really?
Okay.
In that case, I'd love
to have you there.
All right, let's go
talk to Amy.
Okay.
So let me get this straight.
You fixed her stomach
a few hours ago,
and now her liver is failing.
What's causing that?
We have the same question,
actually.
The tests for hepatitis
came back negative,
and that is one of the two
most common causes.
What's the other one?
Alcohol.
(hiccups)
No. She is three years sober.
Amy, can you tell them that
you haven't been drinking?
No, Officer,
I'm  serfectly pober.
This is the anesthesia.
She hasn't been drinking.
She wouldn't do that.
So what would you like?
Would you like for us
to prove it?
We can do that.
AMY: Prove it.
Come on.
Yes, come on.
Okay.
(device beeps)
Honey.
AMY:
Yeah.
(device beeps)
.09.
Over the legal limit
to drive.
Ah, this is unbelievable. Uh...
I didn't drink.
Amy...
I... I cannot even count
how many times
I've been woken up
at 2:00 in the morning
to bail her out of a bar fight,
or how many times I've turned
my house upside down
to find her stash.
No, I didn't drink.
Stop, stop!
Don't. Just don't, okay?
I could handle a relapse.
I can't deal with
your lies anymore.
I didn't drink.
Sneaking booze into a hospital,
that's a new low.
Gretchen, I didn't drink!
Whoa. Hey, hey, hey, hey,
hey, hey. Whoa. Whoa.
Okay.
Okay, easy, easy, easy, easy.
Hey, Mom, are you...
Sam.
Uh, I can come back.
No, it's okay.
I should get to it.
Yeah.
And, Malcolm, thank your mother
for me, will you?
Yeah.
His mother?
She's still very influential
around here.
Well, she is certainly
influencing Malcolm.
She's also raised concerns
about your father's competency.
When were you gonna tell me
he dropped a scalpel
during surgery?
After surgery.
There's nothing to tell.
We don't know what's
going on yet.
He's only had one session
with Pyne.
With Asher Pyne?
Uh...
My husband
is treating my ex-husband?
Yeah.
I'm sorry I didn't tell you.
Dad might be exhibiting
symptoms of PTSD,
and he needed someone
to talk to.
So you sent him to Asher.
I needed someone
we could trust.
And Asher thinks this is
related to the accident.
I agree.
Something in the present
is triggering
past trauma for Dad.
Like what?
I don't know.
Maybe it's me.
You? You have been working
alongside him for years
and he has never exhibited
signs of PTSD.
I've also never been
his boss before.
Maybe it's messing
with his head.
Whatever this is, sweetheart,
you are not to blame.
Well, we won't know that
unless he goes back to therapy.
I will talk to him.
Thanks.
Dr. Tucker! Did you
steal Donna's jar?
No, I'm replicating it
with some supplies I found
so I can make
the most accurate guess.
Hmm.
I think it's somewhere
between, like,
170 and 180...
(babbles)
I don't want any part
of this crime.
The only crime would be
letting Joey win
that bottle of Cristal.
Well, you're not gonna
drink it anyway, right?
You don't have to drink
to appreciate
the favorite champagne
of Tsar Alexander II.
And they still make it
the same way.
Same bottle, same grapes,
two fermentation periods.
You show up to any dinner party
with that baby,
you're getting invited back.
If Joey wins, he'll probably
drink it out of a hat.
What did you just say?
One of those hats, you know,
like, with the straws
that come down.
No, no.
Fermentation.
The process by which yeast
converts sugar
into ethynol and carbon dioxide.
Amy.
Wow.
Amy's latest labs
show a blood alcohol of .11.
Well, she blew a .09
just a few hours ago.
Mm-hmm.
And she's been under
observation.
Then how did she get more drunk?
Because she's not sneaking it,
she's making it.
Where?
In her own stomach.
Auto-Brewery Syndrome.
CALEB:
A buildup of bacteria
or fungi in the stomach
that ferments ingested
carbohydrates.
GRIFF:
It's extremely rare.
It would explain the rising BAC.
Let's schedule an endoscopy.
Yeah.
I hate this feeling.
I should have just
corrected the patient
the minute he assumed
I speak Hindi.
Why didn't you?
Because it always
turns into a thing, you know?
With my last name
and how I look.
People have made this assumption
my whole life.
I only complicate things
when I try to tell them
I'm half Spanish, too.
Do you speak Spanish?
I didn't say I speak Spanish,
I said I'm half Spanish.
Well, you're also part Indian,
and that part got you
an awesome surgery--
embrace it.
I'm being dishonest.
You are putting
the patient at ease.
I tell patients I do Botox
before injecting them,
even though this face
is all natural.
And Sam tells patients that
she had heart surgery as a kid.
Sam did have heart surgery
as a kid.
Mm. Or maybe she's
just that good.
Good luck.
Mr. Jain, I am going to send
an electrical current
to an area of your brain
and give you a command
so we know which sections
are safe to remove.
Say yes if you understand.
Yes.
Mr. Jain, can you
count to ten?
One, two, three...
Speech arrest.
We'll make sure we
avoid this area.
Keep him talking.
Mm-hmm.
So, you know, I never asked.
Do you have any children?
I do.
Mm.
I have...
Mujhe bhukh lagi hai.
Mujhe bohot bhukh lagi hai.
Secondary speech arrest.
What did he say, Dr. Shah?
Dr. Shah, is our patient
in distress?
Uh, uh...
I don't speak Hindi.
That much was clear
from your terrible accent.
I'm sorry.
I know you asked for me,
but I'm not the doctor
you think I am.
I didn't ask for you because
we speak the same language.
I did it because you put
your hand on my shoulder
and made me feel like
I was going to be okay.
You are exactly the doctor
I thought you were.
I'm so glad to
hear you say that.
Stop. His lip is quivering.
You're at the posterior
extent of speech,
which means you've run into
the anterior region
of the motor area.
Now?
Yeah.
Excellent catch, Dr. Shah.
Keep him talking.
Since we are here
for a few hours,
if you really don't know
any Hindi,
would you like to learn some?
Yeah, that sounds great.
Oh...
Oh!
You thought you had a brain
tumor and you didn't tell me!
Ah!
You know, you could
tell your husband
that's supposed to be
confidential.
Asher didn't tell me that,
Sam did.
She is blaming herself
for your PTSD.
I don't have PTSD.
Well, whatever you have.
For your symptoms.
She thinks she's triggering it.
Why would she think that?
I don't know.
The only thing worse
than these symptoms
is that she would
blame herself.
If this really is
about the accident,
I think we both know
what triggered it.
Oh, come on, Viv.
We thought she found this.
We said we would continue
to keep it a secret,
and then you started
having symptoms.
That's a coincidence.
That's all it is.
It has nothing to do
with it at all.
You can't know that.
You can't know until
you tell her the truth about
what happened that day.
I am  not telling her.
(door closes)
Amy, this is an
endoscopic camera,
and we are gonna use it...
I know you.
Sorry?
We've met before.
It was a long time ago,
but I remember.
I think you might
have me confused
with someone else.
I passed out on your lawn,
and you sprayed me
with a hose.
That was so mean of you.
Okay.
Amy, we're gonna use this camera
to look inside your stomach
to find out if your body is
brewing its own alcohol.
So she's not drinking.
AMY:
Well, well, well.
Look who it is.
Judge Judy, everyone!
She's very intoxicated.
We're going to sedate her.
Okay.
Judging every...
You want a piece of me?
Come on.
Let's settle this right now.
Whoa, whoa.
I'm so sick of this.
You think I don't
know what's going on with you?
We grew up in the same...
(high-pitched ringing)
(shouting indistinctly)
There we go.
Nothing's ever good enough.
There...
Let's intubate her, please.
I do not want her to choke.
(high-pitched ringing)
Uh, Dr. Tucker, you could
use the experience.
I'll be right back.
Hey.
What the hell was that?
I-I just needed some air.
You know how upset you get
when you have a patient
who won't take their medicine?
Therapy is your medicine.
And you can either take it,
or you can keep dropping
surgical instruments
and passing off basic procedures
and never pass your proctorship.
If Pyne thinks that
talking about that day
will help you,
then that is what we need to do.
I'll make an appointment.
Please do.
How'd it go?
I didn't get very far.
But you are right
to have your concerns
about Dr. Griffith.
So he is hiding something.
Yes. And Sam's
helping him do it.
Thank you, Malcolm.
Just doing what's best
for Lakeshore.
Speaking of that,
I've been doing
some digging of my own.
The board's reluctance
on the clinic
comes down to the land you'd
have to purchase to build.
They don't want to
spend the money.
But you can get 'em
to budge, right?
If I can get you
the land for free,
I won't have to.
I own a lot downtown.
It's just sitting there.
Mm.
And you would just
give it to me.
To Lakeshore.
Mm. Right.
How about I send you
the details,
and if it works,
write it into the proposal,
I'll take it to the board.
I don't know what to say.
(chuckles)
Thank you.
We make a great team.
Back for more lessons?
(chuckles)
Dr. Lee gave you
the good news?
We removed the entire tumor
and think you'll make
a full recovery.
Thank you.
You have no idea
how much you've helped.
Actually, I've been going
through some things lately
that made me doubt myself,
but you reminded me why
I became a doctor
in the first place,
so thank you.
Vinit...
(speaking Hindi)
Dr. Shah, you know
my wife Meera.
For now.
Not bad.
Hey, I got your page.
Amy Taylor's stomach sample
came back negative for candida.
She is not fermenting alcohol.
Well, at least not
in her stomach.
What are you thinking?
Well, we've discarded
every other theory.
Auto-fermentation is the
strongest explanation.
But we don't have
anything concrete.
We have an inebriated woman
who hasn't had a drop to drink.
That's pretty concrete.
Okay, what's the root cause?
Why is it happening now?
There are a lot of things
that could have contributed,
but...
There's got to be a trigger.
I'd like to order a cystoscopy
and empirically start
a course of antifungals.
(elevator dings)
Okay, good. Monitor her heart
and keep me posted.
Hey!
Do me a favor.
Do not go around me
to my mother.
I answered your questions
about my dad.
Did you, though?
If your mom has
more questions for me,
she knows where to find me.
Look, it's not my mom
asking, Sam, it's me.
Look, I don't
have to tell you,
if there's something wrong
with your dad,
my mom's not gonna be
the last person to ask.
GRIFF:
Okay, now,
this is officially
a conflict of interest.
The accident affected
all of you.
Sharing your feelings
about that day
may help shed some light on
whatever it is
you're repressing.
I'm not repressing anything.
Griff...
What?!
In our last session,
we talked about forgiveness.
Sam, you say you've forgiven
your father for the crash.
About a thousand times.
What about after the crash,
in the emergency room?
Your dad's given me
his version.
I'd like to hear yours.
Okay.
(sighs)
(indistinct radio transmission)
VIVIAN:
I'm here, honey. I'm right here.
It's going to be okay.
You're gonna be okay.
SAM:
Mom was there for me
and you weren't.
Was that traumatic for you?
Uh, yeah.
I mean, no, that's not...
Dad, which is it?
(scoffs)
SAM: I'm tired of
trying to help you
if you will not
talk to me about this.
Do you know?
Know what?
Whatever it is
he's not telling me.
The reason he didn't come
into the ER that day...
...is because I wouldn't
let him.
(siren wails)
What happened? Is she okay?
GRIFF:
She's gonna be okay.
Yeah, she's gonna be fine.
Come on, let's go!
No, gotta go.
Gotta go!
Hey! Not another step.
I can smell the alcohol
on your breath.
You go home.
Go home before anybody
sees you like this.
I was drunk.
And you knew.
Excuse me.
(door opens, closes)
♪ ♪
Hey!
Good news.
Amy Taylor's cystoscopy
confirmed
bladder fermentation syndrome.
It was candida, just not
in the place we were looking.
Great. You were right
to start the antifungals.
Alcohol levels are
dropping as we speak.
What do you say we go
give her the good news?
I'll pass.
You'll pass?
My, um...
My life is kind of
unraveling at the moment,
so maybe you can
do it without me.
Oh, come on,
you have to be there.
I'm really not in
a good headspace.
All the more reason.
Look, you don't need
to be an alcoholic
to benefit from this method.
You're gonna get out
of your head.
You're gonna feel better.
I don't think so.
You're just gonna stand there
until I go with you, aren't you?
Yep.
Give the building plans over to
the city zoning commission.
Can I call you back?
Thank you.
I know we had our differences.
But I thought you were
smarter than this.
This clinic is important to me.
I just, I wasn't ready
to give up on it.
I'm not talking
about the clinic.
I'm talking about your mother.
Did you forget everything
she put us through?
This is business, Dad.
The land benefits Lakeshore,
and she gave it to us for free.
Trust me, nothing for her
is for free.
You'll pay for that land,
and I won't be able to save you.
Look, I don't need you
to save me!
Or boss me or tell me
what to think.
This clinic is a big deal.
I just thought you'd be
proud of me.
Hey.
Nice work.
Thank you.
I heard Griff got back
into therapy.
How'd that go?
Uh, you'll have to ask him.
Okay.
Look, I'm glad that we're
able to do this.
You know, working together,
I mean.
Who knew Griff
would be the thing
that would get us talking
to each other?
Who knew?
You doing okay?
No.
Did something happen in therapy?
You really have to ask him.
But you should start getting
some sleep again soon, so...
GRIFF:
I convinced myself
I was doing the right thing,
not telling Sam.
Not for me, but for Vivian.
That I was protecting
their relationship.
Took myself right out
of the picture.
What a hero.
(chuckles)
And, well...
I'm talking so much.
Talking's the point.
(sighs)
Helps the brain process trauma.
Well, how will I know when
I've processed it all?
For one thing, your symptoms
will improve.
(elevator dings)
Sam.
Don't.
Please just let me explain.
I get it, Mom.
No.
That DUI,
it would have
sunk your father's career.
Mired the hospital in scandal.
I stopped him. I intercepted
the paramedics' field report
that said he was impaired.
Is this supposed to
make me feel better?
You just need to know
that your father would have
walked through those doors
to be with you
and suffered any consequence.
But he didn't because you
(elevator dings)
convinced him to lie about it.
How... how can I
make this right?
I'm not sure you can, Mom.
(door opens)
It didn't work.
Helping the patient.
I mean, it worked because
we helped her, but...
to get me out of my head,
I think I'm gonna need
something stronger.
Okay, well, I mean,
I did win the gift basket,
if you feel like...
I don't think champagne's
gonna do it either.
But I know
one thing that might.
At least it always used to.
Worth a try.
I mean, if that's what you want.
I can't get emotionally
involved.
I just need to stop thinking.
If that's not okay...
I have just
three little words for you,
then it's okay.
Three little words?
Lock the door.
♪ ♪
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org